Update TLS Connect to Serverless Tier of TiDB Cloud (#11944)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-tier-clusters.md

---

> title: TLS connects to Serverless Tier

Reviewer: How about `TLS connection to Serverless Tier`?

Author: Need a simple theme name, maybe this is a good one

Reviewer 2: "TLS connects to Serverless Tier" does not look accurate from the writing perspective,  "TLS connection to Serverless Tier" looks fine.

summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier.
---

# TLS connects to Serverless Tier

Establishing a secure TLS connection between your client and your Serverless database cluster is one of the basic security practices for connecting to your database cluster. The server certificate is issued by an independent third-party certificate provider [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). You can easily connect to your database cluster without downloading a server-side digital certificate.

## Connection prerequisites

> Before connecting to your serverless cluster, you can refer to [Password authentication](tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO authentication]() to log in to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: How to call our TiDB Serverless? Serverless Tier, serverless cluster, Serverless cluster, TiDB Serverless Tier, or TiDB Serverless Tier cluster? 
We need to negotiate a common name.

Author: TiDB Serverless Tier cluster maybe a good name, please refer to which one is a common name

> We simplify the operation process of setting database passwords, allowing you to more conveniently and securely set and reset database cluster passwords on the connect page of your Serverless cluster.

Reviewer: This seems irrelevant to the topic of this article. We can put this description in Password authentication.

Author: no need to relevant,this is different password setting for TIDB Cloud and Database

> ## Secure connect to TiDB database cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Secure connection to TiDB database cluster
```

> we provides different connection examples in the **Connect** dialog. After creating your TiDB Serverless Cluster, click Cluster to see detailed cluster information, and you can see the "Connect" label in the upper right corner. After clicking, you will enter the function page for setting client, application and development tools to connect to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud provides different connection examples in the **Connect** dialog. After creating your TiDB Serverless Tier Cluster, click Cluster to see detailed cluster information, and you can see the "Connect" label in the upper right corner. After clicking, you will enter the function page for setting client, application, or development tool to connect to the database.
```

>    - Support Mysql CLI, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, Node.js and other six ways to connect to your Serverless cluster

Reviewer: Does this mean we can only use these six ways to connect to Serverless cluster?

Author: maybe have more in the feature

   - Provide MacOS, Debian, RedHat, Alpine, OpenSUSE, Windows and other operating system configuration parameters

> The following examples show the connection string in MySQL CLI , MyCLI , JDBC, Python, Go and Node.js:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following examples show the connection string in MySQL CLI, MyCLI , JDBC, Python, Go and Node.js:
```

---
title: TLS Connection to Serverless Tier
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier.
---

# TLS Connection to Serverless Tier

> Establishing a secure TLS connection between your client and your TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier cluster is one of the basic security practices for connecting to your databases. The server certificate is issued by an independent third-party certificate provider [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Hence, you can easily connect to your Serverless Tier cluster without downloading a server-side digital certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Establishing a secure TLS connection between your client and your TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier cluster is one of the basic security practices for connecting to your databases. The server certificate for Serverless Tier is issued by an independent third-party certificate provider [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Hence, you can easily connect to your Serverless Tier cluster without downloading a server-side digital certificate.
```

---
title: TLS Connection to Serverless Tier
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier.
---

# TLS Connection to Serverless Tier

> Establishing a secure TLS connection between your client and your TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier cluster is one of the basic security practices for connecting to your databases. The server certificate for Serverless Tier is issued by an independent third-party certificate provider [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Hence, you can easily connect to your Serverless Tier cluster without downloading a server-side digital certificate.

Reviewer: There seems to be no obvious causal relationship between TiDB Cloud's use of the Let's Encrypt certificate and users not having to download the certificate. Because for the common user, they don't know what the Let's Encrypt certificate is.

Author: I think you are right ，for customer ，It do not need to descirb TLS from which the third partner CA ，what do you think about it @zhangyangyu

Reviewer 3: I agree with @Daemonxiao . We could leave out some implementation details. Users just don't care about it.

## Prerequisites

> - Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md).
```

> - [Create a TiDB Cloud Serveless Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-quickstart.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Create a TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier cluster](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-quickstart.md).
```

## Secure connection to a Serverless Tier cluster

>  In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Serverless Tier cluster as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your Serverless Tier cluster as follows:
```

> 1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your cluster to go to its overview page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your cluster to go to its overview page.
```

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.

3. In the dialog, select your preferred connection method and operating system.

    - Supported connection methods: MySQL CLI, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js.
    - Supported operating systems: MacOS, Debian, CentOS/RedHat/Fedora, Alpine, OpenSUSE, and Windows.

4. If you have not set a password yet, click **Create password** to generate a random password for your Serverless Tier cluster. The password will be automatically embedded in the sample connection string for connecting to your cluster easily.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - The random password consists of 16 characters, including uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters.
    > - After you close this dialog, the generated password will not show again, so you need to save the password in a secure location. If you forget it, you can click **Reset password** in this dialog to reset it.

>     > - The Serverless Tier cluster can be accessed through the internet. If you need to use the password elsewhere, it is recommended that you reset it to ensure the database security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > - The Serverless Tier cluster can be accessed through the internet. If you need to use the password elsewhere, it is recommended that you reset it to ensure database security.
```

>     > - The Serverless Tier cluster can be accessed through the internet. If you need to use the password elsewhere, every time after you connect to the cluster, it is recommended that you reset it to ensure the database security.

Reviewer: It can be costly for application developers to replace their database passwords every time after connection.

Author: after improve this function，and then update those descirption again

5. Connect to your cluster with the connection string.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > When you connect to a Serverless Tier cluster, you must include the prefix for your cluster in the user name and wrap the name with quotation marks. For more information, see [User name prefix](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#user-name-prefix).

Reviewer: It seems that we need not wrap the name with quotation marks in connection operations.

> The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL CLI, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go and Node.js. To learn how to get the `<CA_root_path>` of your operating system, see [Root certificate management](#root-certificate-management).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL CLI, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js. To learn how to get the `<CA_root_path>` of your operating system, see [Root certificate management](#root-certificate-management).
```

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

> MySQL CLI client attempts to establish TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.
```

---
title: TLS Connection to Serverless Tier
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier.
---

# TLS Connection to Serverless Tier

Establishing a secure TLS connection between your client and your TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier cluster is one of the basic security practices for connecting to your databases. The server certificate for Serverless Tier is issued by an independent third-party certificate provider. You can easily connect to your Serverless Tier cluster without downloading a server-side digital certificate.

## Prerequisites

> - Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md).
```

<div label="Node.js">

> [Mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

Reviewer 3: why this? Its name is mysql2.

Author: This link is original link，I am not sure that [Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2) is correct link

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Create and Reset Serverless database password

When you connect to your cluster for the first time, click "Create Password" to automatically generate a password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. The password will be automatically embedded in the sample code for connecting to your cluster easily .

You should copy the password after you create it, and only reset the password after leaving the connect page. Since the serverless cluster is accessed through the Internet,if you need to use the password elsewhere, every time you click on your cluster connection, you need to reset the password of your database cluster to ensure the security and compliance of the database password.

> 

Reviewer: This seems irrelevant to the topic of this article. We can put this description in Password authentication.

Reviewer 3: I agree. Seems the modified version tells user the general way to connect to serverless tier. Not only about TLS.

Author: Let‘s discuss this content, as you know , Password authen just introduce how to set signin and signup for TiDB Cloud ,no focus on Database

## Root Digital certificate management of Serverless Tier 

### Root Digital certificate‘s issuance and validity  

> TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) of Let's Encrypt is present in your system's root CA stores.Let's Encrypt issues Serverless Tier Server digital certificates that are valid for 90 days and will be automatically rotated upon expiration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) of Let's Encrypt is present in your system's root CA stores. Let's Encrypt issues Serverless Tier Server digital certificates that are valid for 90 days and will be automatically rotated upon expiration.
```
Hmm, do we need to mention 90 days here? I think users doesn't care about it. How to manage the cert is in our scope.

TiDB Serverless Tier does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change.

If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters without specifying the path of CA roots.

However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you need to configure the CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use [mysqlclient](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient) to connect a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in Python on macOS, you need to set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in the `ssl` argument.

> If you are using a GUI client, such as DBeaver, which does not accept a certificate file with multiple certificates inside, you must download the [ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt) certificate.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, seems the Mozilla CA bundle information is not mentioned. Why?

Author: windows location , have the same description ,so delete the same content. please check

Reviewer 3: This is not limited to Windows. For any platforms which doesn't carry Let's Encrypt CA could use Mozilla CA bundle. And Windows is the only popular platform we know.

Author: Updated，pLease Check

### Root Digital certificate‘s default path 

In different operating systems, the automatic download storage path of the root certificate is as follows：

**MacOS**

```
/etc/ssl/ca_root.pem
```

**Debian / Ubuntu / Arch**

```
/etc/ssl/certs/ca_root.crt
```

**RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia**

```
/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca_root.crt
```

**Alpine**

```
/etc/ssl/ca_root.pem
```

**OpenSUSE**

```

> /etc/ssl/ca_root.pem

Reviewer 3: Not right. Don't change plz.

Author: ok ,thanks

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Create and Reset Serverless database password

When you connect to your cluster for the first time, click "Create Password" to automatically generate a password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters. The password will be automatically embedded in the sample code for connecting to your cluster easily .

You should copy the password after you create it, and only reset the password after leaving the connect page. Since the serverless cluster is accessed through the Internet,if you need to use the password elsewhere, every time you click on your cluster connection, you need to reset the password of your database cluster to ensure the security and compliance of the database password.

> ## Root Digital certificate management of Serverless Tier 

Reviewer 2: The doc title already indicates Serverless Tier

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Root certificate management

### Root certificate issuance and validity

> TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.If the Serverless Tier certificate expires, it will be automatically rotated without affecting the normal operation of your dedicated tier cluster and the established TLS secure connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.  Once the Serverless Tier certificate expires, it will be automatically rotated without affecting the normal operations of your cluster and the established TLS secure connection.
```

> TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) of Let's Encrypt is present in your system's root CA stores. The Serverless Tier Server digital certificates issued by Let's Encrypt are valid for 90 days and will be automatically rotated upon expiration.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, do we need to mention 90 days here? I think users doesn't care about it. How to manage the cert is in our scope.

Author: I think so ,thanks

> **Note:**
>
> TiDB Serverless Tier does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change.

> If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters without specifying the path of CA roots.If you need the CA certificate of a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster,Please download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) instead of the single CA certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters without specifying the path of CA roots. If you still want to get a CA certificate for a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster, you can download and use the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) instead of a single CA certificate.
```

However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you need to configure the CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use [mysqlclient](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient) to connect a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in Python on macOS, you need to set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in the `ssl` argument.

If you are using a GUI client, such as DBeaver, which does not accept a certificate file with multiple certificates inside, you must download the [ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt) certificate.

### Root certificate default path

> In different operating systems, the default download storage paths of the root certificate are as follows：

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In different operating systems, the default storage paths of the root certificate are as follows：
```

1. Download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it in a path you prefer, such as `<path_to_mozilla_ca_cert_bundle>`.
2. Use the path (`<path_to_mozilla_ca_cert_bundle>`) as your CA root path when you connect to a Serverless Tier cluster.

## FAQ

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Serverless cluster?

TiDB Serverless database cluster only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions for security reasons. Refer to see IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for ditails.

### Does TiDB Serverless Tier support two-way TLS authentication between my connect client and TiDB Serverless cluster?

No.

TiDB Serverless Tier only support one-way TLS authentication, which means your client uses public key to verify the signature of your TiDB database server certificate's private key
 while the server does not validate the client.

### Does TiDB Serverless Tier have to configure TLS to establish a secure connection?

Yes.

> TiDB Serverless Tier only allows TLS connections and prohibits non-SSL/TLS connections. The reason is that SSL/TLS is one of the most basic security measures for you to connect to the TiDB Serverless database cluster through internet, so as to reduce the risk of data exposure to internet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Tier only allows TLS connections and prohibits non-SSL/TLS connections. The reason is that SSL/TLS is one of the most basic security measures for you to reduce the risk of data exposure to internet when you connect to the TiDB Serverless Tier cluster through internet.
```

1. Download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it in a path you prefer, such as `<path_to_mozilla_ca_cert_bundle>`.
2. Use the path (`<path_to_mozilla_ca_cert_bundle>`) as your CA root path when you connect to a Serverless Tier cluster.

## FAQ

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier cluster?

> For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier clusters only support TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For security reasons, TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.
```

1. Download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it in a path you prefer, such as `<path_to_mozilla_ca_cert_bundle>`.
2. Use the path (`<path_to_mozilla_ca_cert_bundle>`) as your CA root path when you connect to a Serverless Tier cluster.

> ## FAQ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## FAQs
```
